Well, Sarah Eric was like, really? This is the topic this week. You know, these are dark days and sometimes you just have to look into your soul. We're doing this, though, because I read a great book. Okay? Our brains are complicated. Welcome everyone to Faded me. I'm Sarah McLean. I read romance novels and I write them. And I'm Jennifer Prokop, a romance reader and editor her and here's how it works, okay? Sometimes we are like, let's do a trope we love, and then we go out and we find the books we love and we do it. And then sometimes we read a book that we want to talk about and we think, well, what are the tropes that are involved in it? And then we do that. And this is that one. Yeah, we back into it. We trick you into thinking we're just like, casually talking about this book in real life, but in actual fact, we built an entire episode. We talk about this book. Yeah. So we want to talk about the book first or the idea first or how are we going to do it? Well, what do you want to do? Oh, that's interesting. Should we talk about should I talk about the book first? Well, do we have any banter? We have anything we want to catch up on? Well, I'm still the beach, everyone. You're still at the beach. We've had quite a week here, Jen. Yes. Did I tell you that on Instagram somebody commented, I live in Little Compton. Yeah, I saw that and I was like, listen, I thought it was the end of the world. How's that possible, friend? Hello. By the way, I just put a signed copy of Knockout into the Little Free library on Old Barn Road. Oh, my God. That's amazing. Also, you're going to have a stalker. Sarah will be gone from that address by the time that you find that book. By the time this episode airs, I will be gone. That's really funny. It's not the house, this little free library. It's down the way. I saw Barbie yesterday. I am seeing Beyonce tomorrow and I am seeing Oppenheimer on Sunday. So I fully expect that by Monday I'll just be completely a new person. I feel like that was the wrong order of things, but I'm really excited to hear about Barbie. It sounds like Oppenheimer. Everything I read about Oppenheimer is like, this is going to make you feel like you want to lay down in a ditch and would think any I don't know how you would have any other set of expectations for that. My interest in Oppenheimer is purely based in the nuclear because you know how I'm like, oh, right, you have a thing. So I'm just like, I'm going to go see that. I'm excited. Beyonce, obviously, is its own excitement. The three of us are going and I'm really looking forward to it. And Barbie, I actually bought like, a month ago, I bought six tickets. I was just like, I'm going to buy six tickets because I have a lot of friends and I know a lot of people. I'm just going to invite people. So Kelly and I went with our friend Julie, and then I invited two people I work with and then another woman I used to work with. And so the six of us went to Barbie, and I had a great time. Did you wear pink? Of course I did. Hello. I mean, obviously, that is my favorite part of the Barbie whole thing right now. I'm going to take my daughter to be Barbie because I think that's only fair. And as per prior conversation, we're at the end of the Earth, so it'll have to wait for a little bit. But that is part of my great joy, is that everybody is wearing pink. Yeah, it was amazing. So here's what I will say about Barbie. I'm going to keep it short because at this point, I just really enjoyed it and I had a great time. And I think I said to you in a text, although my brain is already calculating and seeing some critiques of it, I just don't want to engage in that kind of talk yet. Right. I just want it to be like this thing that I really had a great time watching. So that's where I am with that. I think that's awesome. I have not seen any critiques of it because I'm not really looking at the Internet right now. But what I will say is that I have seen lots and lots of texts from my friends who are like, this is the most fun. Yeah, it was super fun, but also very thought provoking. It was like at one point, I leaned over to Kelly and was like, barbie just got very um. So that was good. And then let's see next, I did see Ted Cruz say that it was Chinese propaganda. Oh. The one thing I tweeted was that if Barbie movie was a book, mom for Liberty would be banning. Like, it is for sure. Like, what else did I oh, I'm going to Nashville next week. When you all hear this, I will be in Nashville, a place I've never been. I'm going for a work, like, school work conference. Oh, my gosh. I've never been there before. And people say it's a great town, so I'm really excited about that. You're going to go see live music? I hope so. I very much enjoy seeing live music. That's what you should do. Yeah. My problem is I don't like country music, but I don't think that it's just that anymore. Yeah, it can't be, right? It's a big city. Anyway, that'll be fun. I'm really excited about that. And then what else we just had listen, it was a very dramatic week. I'm not going to go into the details, but I would like you to know that I, as a mother, really had a great fucking week. You peaked this week. I'm not sure it ever gets better than this. No, I think you might have really hit the pinnacle. I did. I did some business on behalf of little romance that was pretty fucking well, I too peaked as a mother today, this week. And I can tell the story. Good. You tell the story. I can't tell. And this is the difference. Jen told me not long ago that bigger kids have bigger problems. And this is the case because I'm going to tell a story. It's about a nine year old problem. It's a nine problem. So we went to this place, this restaurant that was like outdoors, and you ordered a counter. And then they bring you the food at the table. And they bring you the food on actual plates with actual silverware, but it's on plastic trays. It's complicated. Cognitively, if you haven't made this mental model for yourself before, if you're older than nine, it sort of works out. But if you're nine, it sort of feels like, okay, what is the situation with all this stuff that has come? Right? I know I should eat the food, but what do I do with the rest of it? So my daughter is in this very sort of helpful frame of mind these days. She's still young and so she still feels capable. She likes to feel capable. So we finished eating and it was delicious. We're all kind of sitting and finishing our beers. Not her, because she's nine. And she got up and she said, I'm going to clear this. And I said, okay, well and I pointed and I was like, you just throw the trash in the garbage and then put the tray on top, right? So she went to the garbage and she threw everything that was on the tray into the garbage and put the tray on top. And I turned as she was doing it. I had that moment where I was like, oh, no, I know what she's going to do. Like, she was behind me. I had like a spidey sense that it was all going to go south. I turned and I was like, wait. And she looked at me and I said, you keep all the silverware, it all gets reused. Like just the trash, trash, the napkins and stuff. And she looked at me and it just, I mean, abject horror on her face. No problems. She looks at the garbage can and really for a second, I think that kid's going to go dumpster diving for the forks. Which, by the way, listen, it happens at school all the time because kids accidentally throw away their retainers. So there is a model that they have like you just go in there and you find it or else your parents are going to freak the fuck out. Yeah, well, retainers do cost more than forks. It's true. Much more. Anyway, so she comes back and I was like, it's no problem. And I got up and I went into the place where the twelve year old with a summer job is working the counter. And I was like, so here's the situation. And I told him, and I was like, I'm happy to go through the trash, but the trash can was like locked, sure, of course. And he was like, no, it's fine. And I come back to the table and my daughter has wrapped herself in my sister's sweater. It's just like miserable, like so embarrassed. And I was like, Honey, it's okay, it's okay. I'm sure this happens. This has happened many times, and most people probably don't even tell them. And then she took the sweater off and she took a deep breath and she was like, I have to go apologize. And she got up Jen, and she went into the restaurant to the guy and she was like, I'm the one who threw away all the silverware, and I'm really sorry and is there anything I can do to help? Oh my God. And I was like, I'm the greatest mother who has ever lived, baby. And then this sweet here's the other thing, though. That kid's mom is also the greatest mother who has ever lived, just like you. You are too. Because he said to her, oh, no, it's okay. Everybody makes mistakes. You're like, listen, can I have your mom's number? I just want to tell her good job. And then poor thing came out with rubber gloves on and went through the trash to rescue the forks. That is my oh, and it's like a plain old story. Eric's going to be like, that was not a good story for the podcast. But, you know, listen, we're all part of me is like, I would like everyone to please give me accolades. Well, and you know what? Here's what I'm going to say. I do think it relates to this week's topic, which I'm going to talk about in a second because okay, so this week's topic, everybody, please don't turn it off after I say this is heroines and heroes, people who have been divorced, right? And I don't mean like second Chance necessarily, or like marriage and trouble. One of the characters has been divorced. And I think the reason it relates to this is not because divorced people are raising children and hoping they're doing their best. Although that is true of a lot of divorced people. But I think it just raises a lot of questions about what kind of person am I, right? Either because I made this big mistake and I picked the wrong person or I didn't see that they were sometimes a horrible person, literally, or you know what I mean? So I think that I'm really like now, I'm like, I'm a human who's starting over, right? The way that I thought my life was the person I thought I was the people that I thought right. And I think that that's like a really I say this a lot. It's very much the hallmark of young adult literature. It is not really the hallmark of adult literature. Sometimes there's ways in which someone is kind of like exploring a new thing, but divorce is really a very hard reset. And I think that the difference between divorce versus being a widow. We've done a whole episode about that is there is this feeling of culpability that comes with it. Yeah. Real failure. A sense of could you have done it differently? Could you have done it better? Yeah. And the truth is no, usually truth is it's just the way it goes. Yeah. And I think that's the revelation that comes from a lot of these great a book that really deals with it really well is a book that shows characters sort of coming to terms with that and then shows them finding a different kind of love that serves them in a better, more authentic way. Yeah. And I think so that's the thing that I'm really interested in is this kind of authenticity question, like, who you are is not who you were, but who you will be is the powerful thing in these books. And that was why I was really drawn to the book that I want to talk about. Okay, so now I have a question. This is how we are, you guys. Maybe you're going to see how the sausage gets made here. So one of the things that I would also like to say as a longtime romance reader is another very big difference, is that I think when we were coming up, divorce characters were very common because divorce was so common. And I think I really imprinted on a certain kind of divorced man from Elizabeth Lowell I'm not going to say it. Which is like a trope that now I read a book, like, I started a book that I felt like kind of went down that path, and I was like, man, I'm not interested. So do we want to talk about kind of divorce historically in romance, or do you want to I think we have to I think we have to talk about all the different ways that divorce rears its sometimes ugly head in romance. Right. Because you're totally right. And what I actually thought you were going to say is that we came up through divorce as a way to vilify other women. Yes. And also men. But I think what you're talking about, particularly in the 80s, was a lot of heroes who had divorced their first wives because those women either didn't want to have children or they were gold diggers left with other men or gold diggers. Yeah. Right. And so it was like a very gross shortcut. It was a way for heroes to not trust women. Right, exactly. So yeah, it was a shortcut to, like, a wounded hero. Right. And when I say that this was so common, it was funny because one of the things that we do when we do an episode this way, there's a book I want to talk about. We're going to talk about let me go find other books is you go to Goodreads and you're like, who classified a book with a divorced I think I ended up on a page that was like divorced heroes and it was like 20 pages. And so many of them were old category romances from like the so interesting. And I was really like, oh, yeah, this was the prototypical Elizabeth Lowell hero, right. Like this woman had done him wrong. It was one of those three things, right? Sometimes all three. She didn't want children, she wanted his money, she cheated on him. Right. And therefore he was completely justified in being a total jack wagon. Because the one feeling I had got hurt by this one woman. And it was really interesting because I read a ton of those books and was really it's fascinating to me because I was my parents were getting divorced and I just didn't really care. Men being insufferable assholes, I was pretty comfortable with in terms of how that was working out in my family. I'll just say it that way. Well, it's interesting because I said eighty S, right, and early ninety S and contemporary. But I think by the late 90s, early ought to what we started to see. And even I mean, I'm thinking about, like, Kristen Ashley. Oh, Kristen Ashley also almost all of her characters are divorced. Almost all of her characters are divorced. But there is and also in other that's sort of Kristen Ashley Uvra like not just Kristen Ashley, but also or the Kristen Ashley like corner of her end of the pool, right. Where there is a certain level of heroines who are divorced from men, who are who are coming after them again, who were cruel, who mistreated them kind of almost in the vein of who were all the there was. Like a really big boom in the sort of mid aughts of books where the heroine and these were Austin erotica, where the heroine was divorced and her ex husband was stalking her. Yeah, right. And she had to be protected. And often she was protected by multiple men. Yeah. So there was like a big switch that happened. Right. So it went from the terrible ex wife to the terrible ex husband again. It's really hard one of the things I wish romance is so big, it's hard to sort of know for sure. It feels like it was almost binary, like somebody flipped a switch and it just went from one to the other. Right. One of the things I will say about that generally, from what I remember, is that these men, the abuse or the threats towards these women often were different qualitatively than she didn't want to have kids. She wanted my money. She cheated on me. Right. He cheated on her was part of it. I think romance is romance knows where its bread is buttered and that's always like the anti butter, I guess. But often it was like there was some sort of threat, right? Like a physical threat or he was abusive, like verbally or sometimes physically abusive. And then the he wanted my money one, and I actually have one of these maybe I could talk about is I was the breadwinner. Right? And then he wanted to not work and still thinks he deserves my money. Right. So there was like a flip there too. Yeah. It's funny because as we were thinking about as I was thinking about what other books I wanted to talk about. Of course, I have just recently reread for the 400th time the Master. Yeah. And I was like, oh, well, that's really interesting because that book, they are not divorced, right? But she has that horrible ex who is literally looking to hunt her down and kill her. What's interesting about that though, is what she discovers is that it was never like a real marriage, right? Like he had targeted her. He was a con man. Right. As opposed to this one I could talk about. Yeah, go ahead. This week's episode of Faded Mates is sponsored by Delphine Ross, author of The Poetics of Passion. We love heroin against the wall here at Faded Mates and listen to this. Jen Musa, our heroine, is trying to make money for her very poor family and she's figured out a way to do it. She is writing erotic poetry and selling it to the masses for a great deal of money, including one particular mass who is a gentleman sending her secret love letters. And they've been exchanging secret love letters for months now. Problem is, she's also got a little sister who just needs to make a perfect match. And Musa knows that if it gets out what she's been doing, her sister's match is down the tubes. So instead of doing that, she's going to write kids books, which seems like who among us hasn't decided to do that at some point? To do it, she is hiring a clever artist named Sebastian Atkinson, who works nights as a printer and needs the money, but also takes the deal because he thinks he knows exactly who Miyaza is. He's pretty sure she's the one he's been exchanging love letters with for all those months. And these two are just going to dance around it until they finally get down to it, if you know what I mean. So one of the things that's really exciting about this book is that it is available wide, which means you can get it in print and ebook everywhere, not just on Amazon. This is the first book in the Muses of Scandal series set in Victorian England that explores art in historical romance, which I think is really cool and will appeal to a lot of our listeners. That's awesome. Thank you to Delphine Ross for sponsoring this week's episode. So there is a book I read by Nina Crespo. Remember that name? Oh, yeah, right. I was kind of looking through and it was really interesting because I was kind of like, oh, I read that. Right. So I went back through my Kindle, too, from that list and was kind of looking at books that I had read. Right. And one of them was, okay, wait, sorry. I thought I had these all open on my computer, but whatever. Okay, so I read oh, rules of a Rebound. And this was actually a series called The Breakup Bash or something. Yeah, Breakup Bash. And this book came out in it looks like it says 2019, but I don't think that's real. It's hard times, hard to tell on yield. Amazon. Oh, no, it did come out in 2019. Okay. Anyway, so in this book, there is Natalie. Okay, here's what I really liked about it. Here's maybe why I thought it was old school, because it really read like an old school romance in some way. So Natalie has this kind of, like, shitty ex husband, and she's finally signed the divorce papers, and she and some of her friends are going to go to, like it's called The Breakup Bash. And she ends up hooking up with a bartender named Rome, literally, like, having sex in a closet at the beginning of this book, which you just don't get that anymore in contemporary romance where they're like, yeah, you're hot, let's go. I was very excited about it. And so you think that it's essentially going to be just like a one night stand when her phone, like some alert goes off on her phone at the end of this interlude. And it turns out that someone has broken into her house. And so he agrees to drive her home. And it turns out that someone broke into the house and her dog gets out and she's really upset about it. And through this, what you learn is that her ex husband essentially she's like, we thought we were going to live together and be happy forever. But he quit his job as soon as they got married and told her, sorry, Sarah. He wanted to be an author. And so then he just sat around in the house and, like, skinny this is a very common mean look, not to make it about gender, but it is very common for men to come home, tell their wives they want to be a writer, and then never work another day. And the women are just like, are you going to help? Yeah. So he just, like, sits around in skinny jeans or whatever and drinks lates and is going to write this book, and they get divorced. But the part that then was really interesting to me is when he proposed to her. The story kind of comes out as when they get back to her house, her dog is missing and she's really upset. This is like her baby, this beagle. And I think the beagle's name is Betsy. I was like, I can't believe I'm this invested in a book with a dog. The dog was not on the COVID though. That's how I think they sucked me in. Anyway, that when he proposed to her. He gave her a beagle with the engagement ring. So it was like a puppy and a beagle at the same a puppy and an engagement ring at the same time. Oh, cute. Guess what puppies are monsters. Don't ever give them to somebody as an engagement ring. That's the opposite of an I love you, that's a here, I gave you this monster. So here's the part that was the bad ex husband part, is they had a prenup, and he literally couldn't get anything from her. But because he took the dog to the vet the first time or whatever, all the paperwork was in his name, he essentially blackmailed her and was like, well, I'm going to take the dog if you do not essentially pay me off. And so she has to share custody of her dog with her ex husband just so he can get her money. And I was like, this is terrible. I know, but doesn't that just sound like something an insecure man would do? I know, and it was really interesting because I was like what was really fascinating to me was how clearly well developed this part of the story was. And I really liked that it wasn't about, like, a child. Right. Like, in a weird way, I was kind of like, this is great. That basically you're showing that again, like an insecure person in this situation, this ex husband, or one who's like, I want her money, and there's no other avenue towards it. I know what she loves the most. I don't know. I went back and reread it and was like, oh, yeah, this was a good book. And hot, everybody. Super hot. Nice. Yeah. All right, well, I like it. Yeah, me too. I was really interested in it. So that sort of covers the terrible X. Right? Right. When you proposed this topic and we started talking about it, I suggested that there are three buckets, and there are probably more buckets, but the buckets that I was thinking about is, like, terrible ex who's not really an ex. Right. Second chance. And then an ex who's like a decent person. Right. And it just doesn't didn't work out. Yeah. Right. And I think you almost never saw the third bucket, an ex who's a decent person, and it just didn't work out until very recently. Yeah, I agree. But when I think of divorces, I think of two specifically, and one of them is Vanessa North's, Roller girl, because I think it is a great book example of that. Third, it just didn't work out divorce where it just wasn't right. So I've talked about Rolly Girl before a couple of times because I've put it in the Sports Romance interstitial and I probably talked about it in small towns. So it's one of the Lake Lovelace books. Vanessa has a whole series of and it's queer main characters who are sporty, right? So there's like a skateboarder or snowboarder and then in this one it's roller derby. And Tina, our heroine, or one of our heroines has just divorced. She is trans, she's a late in life transition and her wife and she her ex wife and she broke up in the wake of her transition or during her transition because it just wasn't working for them. It just wasn't the right match anymore. And she is a personal trainer. But the meat cue here is very cute. Her wife has moved out of the house. They don't have children. Her ex wife moved out of the house and she lives in this house. And her ex wife sort of took care of everything in this house in the division of labor in their marriage. The wife handled a lot of the sort of minutiae of household activity. And her washing machine breaks and she needs to call a plumber and so she calls Joe and Joe comes and fixes the plumbing and fixes the washing machine and they strike up a conversation kind of right there in the kitchen. And Joe sort of says, have you ever considered for some reason it kind of comes to pass that they're talking about the fact that Joe does roller derby? And so she says, Tina, why don't you come and join my roller derby team? And so Tina goes and joins the roller derby. And it's really fun and really lovely and romantic because they fall in love with each other via this thing that they both become really passionate about. And on top of know, we talk so much about romance, especially contemporary romance being about finding community or rather modern romance like romance of now being about finding community. And Tina through this journey finds this really rich community of other women and a sisterhood that she hadn't known before for lots of reasons. But now she has this bright group of other roller girls who she can hang with. So it's this really lovely story of identity and of friendship and of the way that you fall in love with somebody when you have a completely new outlook on what love can be and what maybe your role is in a relationship. Yeah, that's a great book. That's like one of those books that's really stood the time. I really love that book. Yeah, I think about it a lot, especially when we get asked often what about books where there's divorce? This is something that we see this question a lot. And I always think of this book because I think. It's a really beautiful book about how you heal from a separation. That is, her ex wife is in the book. She's super supportive. She goes to the Roller Derby games, right? It's really great. I think this is the case that in these books where a character is divorced, you really see how important friendship is to people. And here's why. Because often the friends predate the marriage, and so often these friends know the person the way they were right before all the hurt and through the marriage. And now they've come back out on the other side, and I feel like they are almost, like, function. It's really interesting in a Greek chorus sort of way, like, here's who you were, and it's okay for you to move past that, but it's also okay for you to go back to it. So in the Nina Crespo book I just talked about, there's this part of there's a really explicit act of self sabotage where the heroine really does something essentially to drive the hero away and she can't admit it to herself. And it's one of her friends who's like, well, why did you do that? And she was like, oh, no. And then she was like, oh, yes. And I think that's like the other part about the way the roller derby team functions in Roller Girl, right now, that wasn't her that was divorced, but just like, finding a new community or being a part of a community. Because I feel like so often divorced people feel so isolated. Right. And so it's not just finding the person you were, but it's also like finding a community again. Right. It's about taking a world that had become very narrow and very small because you're in pain because of you know what I mean? And then making your world bigger again. And I think that that's like one of the other things about the roller derby team is it really functions in that way. Like, here's a community for you to be a part of, right? Here's something that you didn't have. Again, not in this case, because your divorce was bad, but just like, you're a different person now. You need something different. Yeah, I agree. Are we ready to talk about the book that brought us all here, then? Yeah, I think this is the right place for it, actually, because you said something that made me think about it, which is like, you feel very isolated. Divorce is very isolating. So the book I want to talk about is Come as You Are by Jess K. Hardy, which I actually downloaded because Jess ran an ad. That's right. And I was like, oh, this sounds great. This one is for people who are looking for seasoned romance, too. It is billed as a Gen X romance. So the hero is essentially like an old grunge rocker and was a very big deal in the past, as you all know. I really love a rock star. I love a celebrity. I especially love a celebrity who's hidden in plain sight or not even really hidden at this point, but is in real life in a normal world. And I added bonus for another protagonist or a love interest who doesn't know who they are right off the bat. So anyway, think if you know, he'd gone off the rails when he was in the band in Pearl Jam back in the day. Anyway, so our main character, that's Madigan, the hero, he really did go off the rails, though. He is an addict. He's a recovering addict, has been for many, many years. But when he sort of fell hard off the wagon, he lost all his money. He was addicted to heroin. His parents actually ended up calling the police on him and sending him he ended up in jail. Wow. Or in prison. He did time, and then he came out and went through a rehab. He went to a halfway house, had a lot of support, and then decided that his calling post this traumatic experience was to build a halfway house for men who were in the same position. So men who coming out of prison were on parole and were trying to stay. So this is all happening in the west, in the sort of mountain west. And right near this halfway house is a ski slope, a mom and pop ski slope, which I grew up near ski slopes, and I grew up skiing. And it had never occurred to me that, of course, there were these ski slopes that were owned by a family, like a family owned the mountain, and they just ran the ski business because skiing sounds like it's like a big corporation sport, and turns out it is a big corporation sport. And Ashley, whose father died three years earlier and left her and her mother in charge of this mom and pop ski slope, is trying to keep it alive while her kind of terrible ex husband works for the ski conglomerate that owns the nearby mountain and wants to swallow up this thing. So the ex husband is in the play like, he is constantly there being a dick. They have a 16 year old daughter who is she might be a little bit older. She might be 18, but she's like home from college, so she's older than 16. So they have a daughter, and Ashley is very buttoned up. So she's 47 years old. Madigan is 53. These are grown ass people who have been through it. She has been through a marriage. He has been through everything that he has been through. These are like deeply decent people who are just trying to do the right thing without getting hurt again and without hurting other people. And so what I loved about this book was how grown up it was. It's interesting because I'm not going to get deep into it with third act breakups, et cetera. This is for you. If you ever say, I don't like a book that has a third act breakup because I don't want it to be giant and conflict laden. There is a real conflicting moment at the end of this book in the third act where they have to leap together and take the risk on each other. And it feels just as emotional and just as powerful as any other third act breakup. It's thoughtful and it's internal and it's intense. And you think to yourself, like, this is your chance, you dummies. Yeah. Right. And it feels so authentic and real. As somebody who is an older person who likes to think I have most of my shit together, but sometimes you have to take a risk that you're not willing to necessarily take for happiness and for joy. I think that sounds awesome. I'm excited to read it. I mean, I think my thing about risk taking I mean, I've said this a lot. There's a lot of ways to insulate yourself from risk as an adult. You know what I mean? You can take a job that's okay and pays the bills, and you can sort of stick with friends that you've had a long time. And so at the point as an adult where you have to choose to take a risk as opposed to the many ways which risk can be thrust upon you right. I think that can be a really compelling kind of story, especially for a person or an author. It sounds like just is doing this is really like, I don't know, building it in with who the characters are and what they've been through. Yeah. And I think this episode, obviously, is like we're using divorce as the jumping off point here. And the ex husband is really well framed in this book. He's very well used. He's a villain of sorts, but he's just a villain because he's a jerk. He's not a monster. He just is a kind of bad guy. And just like there are in the world, right. Ultimately, he's kind of willing to do anything to get that ski resort, and he's jealous that she's moving on and he sees a chance to destroy both of those things. And I think it's just very well done. It feels really honest and real. And I thought about it as I was reading. I was thinking about all these contemporary romances that are out right now that feel very kind of hyper real right there's. This sense of the magic of romance is very different in those books, in these sort of newer contemporaries than it was and say, kiss an angel or Nobody's baby but mine. And this is a book where she really threads that needle really well. Also, the sex is so hot. And for those of you who are looking for a rep for hysterectomy rep, the heroine has had a hysterectomy. I mean, it just feels so slick and modern and tightly written and super sexy. And as you know from all the text I sent you, I really loved it. I loved it so much we decided to do a divorce episode so that I could talk about it. I mean, right? Like that's pretty great. It's definitely moved right up to the top of my list. This week's episode of Faded Mates is sponsored by Andy James, author of Lost and Found by the Duke. So, Sarah, in this one we have my favorite kind of setup, which is we have a young widow, lady Grace Harcourt. She was unhappily married and she's widowed and she's like, I know what I'm going to do, everybody, and that is I am ever going to get married again. Yeah, she's like, forget it, men are terrible. So what she does instead is she is like, I'm going to find myself a nice position as someone's governess or companion and I will happily live out my days without ever having to worry about this again. And who is lady Grace going to fall for at a country house party? His name's Henry Ellison. The newly minted Duke of Carrington. And Henry never expected to be the Duke, right? So a long series of mishaps have happened and he's the Duke now and he all of a sudden is beset upon by debutants and their mothers and new know all these new expectations. We're babies. I know, but I bet he thinks Grace can help him. And so he is convinced that if only he's like, look, we are the answer to each other's problems. Let's get married. And neither of us really have a place in society, but with each other's help, we can make it happen. So this is the first in an exciting new Regency historical series called the Reluctant Lords by a debut author. So fun. So if you would like to read Lost and Found by the Duke, you can do that right now in print or ebook or with a monthly subscription to Kindle unlimited. Thanks to Andy James for sponsoring this week's episode. So let me talk about one more contemporary by Ruthie Knox and I read Flirting with Disaster. But it is a whole series called the Camelot series set in a small town in Ohio. And from what I can tell, actually, all of the characters maybe have divorce in their past, but this was the one I got from the library. Anyway in this one. I really like this though for kind of the story. So Katie is our heroine and she is pretty young. She got married when she was 18 and what happened is she and her high school boyfriend ran away to Alaska. They were going to go to school in Alaska but they were dumb kids and didn't do any research and didn't realize that residency requirements exist. So they're like, oh, I guess. But it turns out that at least right in the book, I'm not sure if this is true in real life, everybody if you're married the residency requirement, you can kind of get to faster. And so they get married and it's really interesting because in the book the hero is this new guy named Sean who also went to high school with them but was like a friend of her brothers. And the whole it's fascinating. The whole beginning part of the book is he won't talk to her and she doesn't know why. And it turns out that he has a stutter that he mostly manages but something about her brings it back out in him and so he just like broods. It's great because they work together and so she's like, I don't know why this guy won't talk to me. And where they are going is that they work for a security company that her brother owns. Whether or not there's a big nationally known security company in small town Ohio, romance reasons. And a really hot rock star is hiring them to come do some work. And she is like, I'm going to get together with this rock star because I am fresh off a divorce and I'm going to get it. And Sean is just sitting next to her brooding. Of course he's been in love with her since high school. And the thing that's really interesting is she really never told her family that she got like the whole thing was kind of secret. And then her ex, her husband, now ex husband ran off on her and left her a note that said he was going to Tibet and it turned out he went to Hollywood. So the whole thing is when she has to tell him this story yeah. You get his perspective of like I heard that guy shit talking her in locker rooms and I can't believe that she got together with him. So it's really the case of a person who in Katie, he was terrible and Sean was like, you married know? And she's like, yeah, no kidding. And so this is really a case of someone who has know who is like, yeah, I was a kid but God, how did I miss all those signals, right? How did I let this guy derail my entire life? How did I not see what was going on? Way ahead of that. And then now if it was just some stranger, right? There's also something really smart I think Ruthie Knox does in the writing of this, is if the hero had been someone who didn't know him, she might not have ever had to tell the whole story in that way. Right? But because this guy knows what a dirt bag the husband was, she has to sort of reckon with her past in a different way. And I thought it was so well done and so interesting. Like I said, it's part of the Camelot series but this one was called Flirting with Disaster. And the ex husband isn't really like a part of the story. It's more her story about who she was and how she's changed the regrets that she has about not seeing all the red flags, essentially. Well, it's really interesting, right? Because I think that this sort of speaks to the divorce. Any story, any romance novel where one of the characters is divorced really lends itself to a second chance story, right? Yeah. So they're all second chances. Right? It's all second chance at love. Right? But it's not necessarily second chance at love in the purest form of it where the divorced couple then comes back around together. And I do have two of those that are that, right. I wrote one that was that. But I also think there is some really powerful stuff here with people who you might have been with before your. So, like that one, like Ruthie Knox's, which you just talked about. I love a book called Love on the Hudson by an author named Katie Fisher, which is really powerful. So Katie Fisher writes all of her books are set in the Hudson Valley in New York, and she really understands there's a powerful sense of place in these books. And this book is really interesting because the two main characters, David and Nick, went to high school together and realized in high school that they had very strong feelings for each other and David to the point where they were each other's firsts, et cetera. And Nick kind of had this realization that as a good first son quote air quotes good first son in a Greek family, a newly immigrated Greek family. The idea that he was gay would cause a rift between him and his family. And he, know, set to inherit the diner. His father had come over from Greece and started a diner and whatever. It's all sort of the baggage of family is so rich. There's so much of it in this book. And so what ends up happening is Nick breaks it off and basically says to, like, this can never happen. We can never be david goes off, becomes an art historian, throws himself into his work, becomes a professor, excels in his field. Nick stays home, takes over the diner and marries a nice know down the yeah. And then realizes, know, joy is more important. Right? Truth in identity is more important and ends up reuniting with David. And there is a question of trust at this point. I mean, this is another sort of there's so much pain in divorce. Like, you were like, so much sense of how you might have done it differently. And I think this is a book that really mines that pain in a powerful way to make for love. Right. Because David, of course, is like, how do I know that you're not going to do this again? You're not going to be in the wind, right? Right. And Nick is kind of having to deal reconcile his path, his failed marriage, the choices that he made that impacted not just him but also his ex wife and move forward in truth. Right. And it's powerful. Wow. Yeah, that sounds know. But also there's some of the other ones, like I just want to name check. I've talked about this recently, but Jill Chalvis has that great series in Lucky Harbor and the sweetest in The Sweetest Thing, the main character oh, God, I think her name is Tori Tony. Anyway, the main character of The Sweetest, heroine of The Sweetest Thing has an ex husband who so she goes home. She's newly divorced, she goes home to Lucky Harbor or she moves to Lucky Harbor with her sisters to open an inn. This is like the most classic setup for a small town series you've ever heard. Right. Each of the sisters gets their love. She her ex husband, who is a NASCAR driver, turns up in town and tries to win her back. And Jill plays it for last because we know that the boy that she lost her virginity to back in the day when she was a child, who's know, beautiful and perfect for her in every way and ready to do anything to win her back or to win her, is the hero. There's no question it's not a love triangle. But in comes this sort know, blustery, powerful NASCAR driver who's finally ready to pay attention to her instead of a know and it's really very fun. And then he gets in a novella later, his own love story in Lucky Harbor. And those actually, I just noticed today when I was looking at this book online, if you go to Christmas in Lucky Harbor, that's the new anthology and you can get the first two novels in the series and the novella with the ex husband perfect, all in one. I love it. Before we move to historicals, I do want to talk about one Kristen Ashley book because I do think it plays it presented like a different something we haven't talked about yet, which is and this book is kind of wild, right? Like all Kristen Ashley books, it's going to be for you or not for you. But in Walk Through Fire, my favorite way to talk about Kristen Ashley books to people who've never read her is like, did you ever read the one where people do pony play in a Kristen Ashley book? No. Yeah. And I was like, listen, she just goes there. She has an idea. She's doing it. Yeah. So in this book, though, one of the things I really liked about it is it has a breakup where a really common trope, I think in some romance, at least the kind we grew up in, is like one. Of the characters. Usually a man. If it's a male, female romance is like, I have to break up with you because I know better than you. I know something. I'm going to do this for your own good. And in this book, it's the heroine who does that because she knows that this man she's with, he's in like a motorcycle club. His name's high. I can't remember her name right now because names but she essentially they're young and wildly in love. But he wants to have kids and she finds out that she is Baron. And so she breaks up with him so that he can essentially go on and find another family. Find a family that's going to be really important to him and she can't give it to him. They were young and she does this thing, right? And then like 15 years without telling him. So she just breaks his heart and then it's like 15 or 16 years later. So now they're like close to 40 or he is 40 and she's like in her late 30s. They kind of run into each other again and he is still so angry at her, like, at the way that she broke his heart. And he's divorced because he did marry and he did have daughters, but he's miserable. Right, but he was not happily married because he still loved her. Yeah, but she also is like but in her mind, she sees him actually the first time she sees him again, I think she's in like a chipotle and he's with kids, like, getting dinner with his daughters and she's like, it was worth it because he had this you know what I mean? And it's really fascinating because it takes him a long time to figure out what the fuck was going on and then he's like, are you out of your fucking mind? Right? Like I said, it's not for everybody. It pushed a lot of my buttons in terms of what I think of is when men do it, it's controlling, and when women do it, it's self sacrificing. Right. And I think it really plays around with that and really then says, okay, let's look 15 years in the future and see how that decision tree played out. Right? Well, I mean, also, Jen, it feels like there are a lot of divorce novels, divorce romances where children and childbearing and yes, of course, fertility become a critical piece. Right. I mean, I wrote one. Right, sure. But I'm also thinking about before I let go. Right? Well, I was just going to say, if celebrity gossip is to be believed, just this week a very handsome man broke up with a very beautiful woman and it was like he wants kids or whatever. I mean, that's what they always said about Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston, right? Who knows? I mean, who knows? Listen, celebrity gossip is nonsense. But in before I let go. And this isn't about that, right? But in Before I Let Go, the protagonists have a very devastating loss of child. They were very much in love and they just couldn't recover. Right? They couldn't recover from it. And we know this is true, right? Like, we know these are authentic not it is not an unheard of situation for this to happen. Child loss is devastating and traumatic. And Kennedy, of course, as always with all of her books, threads that needle so powerfully. And in that case, it is a true second chance story where they fall back in love, or maybe they were never fallen out of love. They trust themselves and each other to do this again. Well, it's a real thing about like I think those books are really trying to point out to you that marriage and love are not always they're not synonyms. And it's complicated. It's complicated. I mean, it goes back to what I said about the Jeff Hardy book, where it's like these are two grown people making mistakes that are the kinds of mistakes that grown people I mean, Kennedy and Before I Let Go does that. So well, you and I have talked about that book particularly as really edging up on commercial. So yes, right. It's such a complex story of that know Kennedy. First of all, it's very hot. And second of know, Kennedy does the job. She knows how to write a romance. So at the end it still feels very rewarding and emotional. I have a couple more. Okay. I mean, I have historicals yeah, well and historicals do you want to talk about like, divorce in historicals, like yeah, well, I think it's really interesting, right, because divorce in the Regency I mean, in Victorian times, too, divorce was not easy to get. No. You needed an act of Parliament to get a divorce. I only know that because of Day of the Duchess. I'm not going to lie to you, everyone. I wrote a divorce book. It's called the Day of the Know. It is probably my most I was talking about it actually today to Eric, and I was like, I think I might be most proud of Day of the like, I think it is a very emotional it does a lot of this mining grown up feelings thing. And I wrote a divorce book. And as part of it, I had to really think through, like, how was I going to it begins with the heroine of the book returning after years away and asking her duke husband for a divorce because she wants to be free, she wants to own her own business, and she can't do it if she's married. And he says, fine, I'll divorce you, but you have to find me another wife. Right? And then it's a country house party where everybody has to a bunch of single people come and vy to be his wife and of course they fall back in love. So you needed an act of parliament to get a divorce. And you could only get it for certain things, right? You get it if you could prove impotence. You could get it if you could prove you were mentally incapacitated. In some way you could get it if there had been some kind of infidelity. But actually only on the part of the wife. Right? Because that's where the heir comes into play. So if there was a threat of the heir not being of the blood of the father, then right, obviously. So what often happened was wealthy couples would tee it all up so that the wife had a quote, affair and was walked in on by servant or like another member instead of getting ruined. Kind of. Yeah, exactly. And so basically the husband and wife would agree that this was how they would do it. And then they would get their divorce. They would pay for their divorce, get the vote in Parliament, and then the heroine would be ruined forever. But at least she didn't have to be married to that terrible know there are a lot of ways that this plays out. Lorraine Heath wrote a book know has this thread, The Day of the Duchess. This is a conversation that gets had in Day of the Duchess. I want to talk, though, about Laura Lee Gerkey's Scandal of the Year, which is set 19 three. Laura's it's very cool. Laura's whole vibe was that she started writing ages ago. And then she started every year, every book she put out would like, move the story forward, move her characters forward one year. And so Scandal of the Year is set in 1903. It's Edwardian and there's a car in it. But it feels very like it has that sort of Victorian feel. And this setup is really cool because the heroine basically uses the hero who is a duke. She is married to another man, to a man, to another aristocrat, and he is the worst. He treats her abominably. And she is like, I am going to end. And he won't give her a divorce. He won't end the marriage. And so she's like, no, fuck this. I'm going to get myself divorced. I'm going to get myself into a situation where he has no choice but for his honor to divorce me. So she manipulates this duke into sleeping with her. And they get caught. And they get caught. She manipulates she affects them getting caught. And then she gets her divorce and they go their separate ways. And then she realizes she needs a favor from him she's ruined. And she needs him to help her. She goes her husband or the guy that ruined the guy she ruined to get the quickie divorce. So she goes back to him and she's like, I need you. I'll do anything. Like, what can I do to get you to help me in this for whatever the romance reason thing is, right? And he's like, Well, I have some ideas because he's furious. Sure. He was like, of course is the greatest sex of his life. Jen of course. And when he found out that she used him, he was pissed because. It sure felt like it should have been out of love. So he's basically like, fine. So essentially he's like, he's supposed to be looking, of course, for a proper marriage, but he's like, I actually need a secretary, and also maybe I need you to have sex with me a lot. And she's like, well, if I have anyway, that's Laura Lee Gerkey's scandal of the year. But what I really like about that is that you very rarely see a romance where the actual hero and heroine are the two who were in the infidelity, right? Which of course in this case isn't really infidelity because her husband was I mean, whatever, it's fine. It's romance infidelity. And then my last one is of course Sherry Thomas, because sure, with a divorce you've got to have Sherry Thomas in there and that's private arrangements. And it's a similar situation where the heroine have you read this one? I think so, yeah. It's the one where the heroine, she falls for the hero, but he is in love, or at least has told himself he was in love with. He's like promised to a woman far away and who is like a model of perfection. This is Sherry's course, right? But the heroine does this terrible thing, I mean really terrible, where she desperately wants him to marry her instead. So she forges a letter, oh boy, from this woman from far away, and I'm marrying someone else. Oh, no. And I'm cutting you free. I'm like setting you free. And so he's like, okay, I'll marry you. And then the morning after their wedding, it all becomes clean and he's so livid that he leaves for America for ten years. Oh my gosh. And he just holds storages her, and she's broken hearted. And then she's finally like, you know what, I can't deal with this. And so she summons him back to England and is like, I want a divorce. And he says, I'll give you one, but you have to give me an heir first. Which doesn't like a hundred percent make sense, but whatever, just go with because he's never going to marry again. Obviously, Sarah, I mean, obviously he's broken by her. Yeah, like whatever. But it's fine. He's like, just one more time. And so she's like, okay, they make the steal that she'll give him an heir and then he'll give her divorce. And of course that never happens. Of course. Spoiler, they don't get divorced. Spoiler alert. But in classic Sherry Thomas fashion, it's woof. I'm sure my heart like just hearing about it's already, like wrung into tiny little pieces. It's interesting. You know, it's funny because I realized I don't actually have historicals where the divorce happens, right? Like, I was thinking, like oh, lady Isabella's scandalous marriage. But they don't get divorced, they just separate, right? I mean, I think so. It's like really it's so hard. Right? So I thought I was looking for that I would say the other thing that was really interesting to me and maybe it shows some personal growth, Sarah, is I tried reading a book with a divorced hero from a currently popular author on TikTok and it was very much in the vein of the Elizabeth Wool. Like, I've been so broken. And basically this guy I'm not going to name the name because I don't want to know. It's not a big deal. It's not what we do here. But what was interesting more is my response is basically like, this guy is looking for a nanny and he's just like, all the women just want me because I'm so great. And I was like, oh, he's like a total pick me guy. And I just was like, that's how these Elizabeth Lowell heroes were back in the day. I didn't want it anymore. Right. And all the women who loved them were tall and blonde and wore silk. Yeah, exactly. And I just was like, you know what? I don't want this. I don't want sort of the poor me kind of. Can I just do another quick moment of self promotion? Yes, please. Because I don't do enough of that these days. Knockout. Preorder it now. I wrote another divorce. I realized when I was working on this that I have actually written two divorce books because in the Duke Worth Falling For, which is my contemporary, my only contemporary. The hero is divorced and he has an incredibly cool wife who is the head of the British Museum. I mean, sure, which ex wife? Ultimately, he has a very cool current wife as well. But the ex wife is really great and she's really living her best life. She is an art historian, the head of the British Museum and married and now accountess. Well, see, there you go. Amazing. Goes happily ever after, everyone. And he, of course, is like, that marriage didn't work. I am the reason why I can never love again. Which is exactly how it should be. And I think it's interesting. I mean, I'm glad we brought up Kennedy's book because I do feel like there are a small number of books in which a divorced couple get back together. Right. But they're very small. I think it's harder to even carry off than marriage and trouble because it's like marriage is over is a different trope. But it's interesting because, you know, in real life, like outside of romance and faded mates, it happens. Yeah. I have several friends whose parents were divorced and then remarried. Interesting. Which is kind of bananas. Well, yeah, I can't imagine that. I think a singularity would form. Taylor was divorced and remarried multiple times. Well, sure. Elizabeth Taylor is a movie star, though. She literally has violet eyes. She can do whatever the fuck she wants. Sarah, the primordial romance heroine. I mean, come know the other thing I guess I was interested in, and I didn't really put this together from my memory until I was looking is the two series I sort of talked about that Camelot series by Ruthie Knox and the breakup bash series by Nina Crespo, who I apologize for thinking I've been reading forever. I think she's pretty recent. And then also a series by Shannon Schroeder, I think, called, like, the Divorcees or something is a lot of these have divorced characters as sort of like the unifying element. Right. I mean, in the breakup bash, one, it's like three friends who have all gone through breakups. I think I picked the one I picked because I knew for sure that she was divorced versus just a breakup, so I was, like, wanting to stay on brand. But I also thought that made a lot of sense to me, too, in the sense that it must be right. I talked about the friends who had been with you all along and kind of knew who you were, but I also think you could make a really strong face for, like well, you also need to find friends who know what you're going through. Imagine you're the only person divorced in your group of married friends. How awful that would be. Like, how you would just feel like, I'm not in that. That's not for me anymore. Right. And so I think it was also really interesting. I was sort of thinking, like, it would make sense to me that this would be like a thread that could tie people together because you would want very badly to find people who knew what you had gone through right. Or who could understand how separated you felt from the world. So I thought that was really interesting, too, that there would be so many series that kind of were like, that's what ties us together. Right. Not that we're Navy Seals, that we're divorced people who are kind of life's Navy Seals. That is true. Based on the experience to go they have gone through the wringer, and they have to do a lot of things for a lot of people. Yes. I think that is let's call that that's what our episode is going to be called, and no one's going to know why. Life Seals, they'll be like, oh, they'll be like a military episode. No military industrial complex. Down divorce. Right. Amazing. I'm sorry, everybody, that we're laughing. I am a child of divorce, and sometimes I have to laugh because it's real fucked up. Listen, I am not, and maybe I should have been. Yeah. And a good friend of mine has just gone through a divorce, and it's been really hard. Yeah. So if you're out there and you're going through this, here are a lot of books that will show you how it can be on the other side. Yeah. We love you. We do love you, and we hope you're doing okay. If your ex is great, we'd love them. And if they're not, we hope they die. Let's just leave it at that. I don't have anything else more to say about that. That's all I have to say. Take your dog. You can message us anytime and we will tell you that straight to your face. Take your dog and leave that man in the dirt. It's fine. We hate those people anyway. Next week, I'm back in New York. The sound will get better. Eric will be much relieved. We got Ted Lasso coming next month. Knockout is coming next month. And some other things up our sleeve. Very fun. All right, everybody. Have a great weekend.